In both this extract and in the play as a whole, Macbeth is presented to be violent whether it be praised or shamed.
In this extract, we are told about Macbeth right at the beginning of the play. We see Macbeth fighting in a battle. In this scene violence is seen as good and something to be praised as they think the people that they are killing deserve it.
Firsty Macbeth is seen as "brave" by the captain and is looked highly on, for killing so many people. This shows Macbeth is violent but that he is praised for it and people think better of him for it.
Secondly, in this extract the audience are told about how Macbeth "unseemed" his enemy "from the nave to th'chaps and fixed his head upon our battlements". This is a very violent way to kill someone and just so happens that this was the way Macbeth chose to kill this man. I think that not only does it show Macbeth to be a violent character, but it also shows the audience that he has always had a violent nature even before finding out that he would be king.
Macbeth is not only shown as violent in this extract but also in the rest of the play. The next time in the play that we see Macbeth as violent in when he kills King Duncan. In Macbeth's soliquey just before the murder of Duncan Macbeth says "is this a dagger I see before me" this shows the audience that Macbeth has the violent thoughts in his head but they are only made obviouse to him when he wants them to.
He then, after killing King Duncan, says "It is done" he says this with no emotion which makes the audience feel like Macbeth is so violent and heartless that he doesn't care about what he has just done.
In the extract we are told about Macbeth's sword, "brandished steel" which is "smoked with bloody execution" this is telling the audience that Macbeth's sword has been used so many times to kill so many people that it is just covered in death and murder. This shows Macbeth's violence because he is just so used to killing people that it has become normal, and he doesn't care and no one around him cares and they just think that he is a "valient cousin" and "worthy gentleman"
Lastly towards the end of the play we see Macbeth talking to Sayton. In this scene we still see Macbeth as a violent character, only now he's not giving that violence up "until Birnam Wood moves to Dunstanain". Here he is saying that he is not going to give up, he is not going to stop fighting until the unbelievable happens as he believes the woods cannot ever move so what the whitches told him is wrong. And that nothing and no one can ever over thrown Macbeth.